[MUSIC]
>> Rachel Nabors: Let's focus
a little bit on theory.
So back in 1993, Jacob Nielsen did
a bunch of research that showed that
there were three major time limits to
keep in mind when optimizing human
computer interaction,
specifically page loads.
Now, it should be
mentioned that humans and
their interactions with computers
have changed a lot since one 1993.
We have people who are much more
used to using computers today
on faster Internet connections and
even with gesture interfaces that
respond immediately to them
like in the app environment.
So our expectations today might be
different from how they were in 1993.
However, these experiments
haven't been repeated and
they do give us some temporal guidelines
to work from not to mention they do line
up with some experiments I saw in the past
and I'll talk about them in a moment.
So let's extrapolate
a bit from this research
what you found was that 100 milliseconds
a jump cut that is to say going from one
page to another takes 1000 milliseconds
will feel instantaneous to a user.
They don't notice that
there's any kind of a lag it
feels like they've just popped on to
the other page even if it took 100
milliseconds to go from point A to
point B and re-render the page.
In animation,
at one hundred milliseconds, happened so
quickly that it's hard to perceive.
Now, page loads from one hundred
milliseconds to one second long, they
would be noticeable but people still felt
very connected to that interaction, right?
So that's kind of your sweet spot, between
one hundred milliseconds and one second.
This lines up with some
research that has been done
about how long it takes
humans to notice change.
Now, there's a huge variety
in people's temporal beats.
Now you might have noticed
older people saying everything
seems like it's going by so fast,
this has been scientifically proven.
That many older people
experience time passing faster
because their internal
metronome is ticking slower.
Some people have internal
metronomes that tick very fast.
So everything feels like it's
happening very slowly around them.
These people can notice change
closer to around 70 milliseconds.
Whereas, older people might be noticing
change happening over 700 milliseconds.
That's that's a pretty big range, but
that's one of the reasons why we notice
that there's this kind of a sweet spot,
right between 1 second and
100 milliseconds.
Because this is going to
capture the gross of humanity.
We'll talk a little bit more
about that in a moment.
So,
>> Rachel Nabors: There
was this other thing too.
Around 10 seconds response delay,
users no longer felt like their action and
the interface's reaction were connected.
That is to say, you can think of the 10
seconds point as the I'm bored point.
If something takes ten seconds long,
if you're going to be running an animation
for 10 seconds, probably needs a play
button on it, or it could be a movie.
Just putting that out there.
>> Rachel Nabors: So
here's my site at this time in 2016,
here's my site with a one
second transition duration on
this side bar.
>> Rachel Nabors: When I
was developing this one
second seemed fine.
But you never seen this before?
Probably feel like this is a little slow.
This user interface feels slow to you.
Okay that is fine,
that is a fair assumption.
And the reason that it
would look fine to me.
After spending a week or so
working on it is because, and
this is a well known problem
in studio animation.
When studio animators are working on
animations to get pulled into this
warped sense of time.
Because they're so busy studying
every frame of that animation.
Imagine two people dancing they can see
every movement, that when they replay it
they tend to replay it at speeds
where they can see each of those
individual frames and actually experience
it because they're fine tuning it.
They're playing it slowly they're
looking for the movements.
So there's a rule of thumb in Animation
Studios which is that however long your
pre-production animation is you
need to have its duration and
then have it again that
is to say quarter it.
When preparing final frames to show to
an audience, if I ran them at the same
speed that I was working on the at
it would really be slow and
it's the same for studio animators.
That dance sequence that they spent, who
knows how many man hours making they're
going to have to play it really quickly,
which is kind of sad for
the art but hopefully someone
will take some beautiful stills.
So here's my site with a 300
milliseconds duration.
I found that 250 milliseconds was
a little bit too fast for the motion.
You will find that motion, like actual
movements of things across screens,
tends to do better with longer durations
the wider the distance it has to cross.
So that's just because large things moving
quickly across the screen never look good.
In user interface animation
250 to 300 milliseconds
are a recurring theme and
they recur for a reason.
In game development,
you also find 250 to 300 milliseconds.
They show up over and over again.
That is because this is kind of the gross
median for humans to notice change, and
this is going to feel right to
probably the vast majority of users.
Although a little fast perhaps, to people
whose metronomes are ticking a bit slower
and a little slow to people whose
metronomes are ticking a bit faster.
Now, there is an opportunity
with the Web Animations API,
which is in development right now.
It's shipping out In more and more
browsers there's discussion of letting
users access the global timeline so
that they could say I want all
animations that the web animations API
runs which would be CSS animations and
CSS transitions because this API
underlies how the browser renders them.
I want all of these to run a little
faster or a little slower.
And this would be an accessibility
thing than the browser could go in and
adjust the internal playback rate for all
of its animations in accordance with this.
That's the hope to let people have
choice in how they perceive the web.
So you can go with these default setting
look pretty good for everyone but
users would then have
the choice to slow down or
speed things up across the board
across the web for themselves.
Just putting that out there,
it's a little bit in the future
people who are watching this video in the
future might be like totally happened or
they might be like totally didn't happen.
But I wanted to remind you
that this is in the works.
But keep in mind you do still
have a full second to play with
people before they get bored.
So if your animations like you're moving
something really big across the screen
takes 800 milliseconds,
don't feel too bad about it.
If that's what it takes for it to look
right, you still haven't gone over that
one second mark.
>> Rachel Nabors: And
that's an important note to make here.
Who here is a major performance wonk?.
I know we've got some performance
wonks in the audience here.
I see a little hand see another hand.
We are really focused on performance
right now and that is wonderful It is so
good to see people excited
about performance.
But sometimes we forget why we were
originally excited about performance.
We get so focused on just
getting information splashed
on the screen as quickly as we
possibly can that we forgot
why we were trying to do
that in the first place.
It all comes down to that study by Jacob
Nielsen we wanna make sure that people
can see that page has changed
within 100 milliseconds.
We want them to feel like the interface is
reacting to them, is responsive to them,
that things are being done.
It's like having someone
pick up the phone and
saying hey yeah we totally
understand you're having a problem.
But they can still say I
have to put you on hold for
one minute, I'll be back to you.
And as long as they're back within
a reasonable amount of time
that person calling the call
center will not be upset.
But still much better to get that
notification that this is being handled
than it is to get like a phone
that just keeps ringing.
It's the same with performance.
I hear a lot from people who love
performance that they don't like
animations because they just shaved
you know 300 milliseconds off of,
off of the load time for
a page by optimizing database calls and
now I want to add 250 milliseconds to that
page load with the transition am I crazy,
well that, yes and no.
You have to keep in mind that deciphering
an interface Increases cognitive load time
and can slow users down just
as badly as a slow load time.
If you're going from a page that is very
different from the page where the user
was adding a transition to show them
how they're getting there can help them
reorient faster than if you just
got it to them in 50 milliseconds.
So that's one of the reasons why
animations can be your friend too.
They can also mask long load times.
If you're going to take
fifty milliseconds,
having a one hundred millisecond animation
on it, isn't necessarily a bad idea.
You will be masking that load time.
So animation and
performance can be friends and
it's important to remember why
performance and animation are important.
Because you want users to feel like
that interface is responding to them.
But you also don't want them to be
confused if the interface suddenly and
rapidly changes, all right.
>> Speaker 2: So
we had question.
>> Rachel Nabors: Yes.
>> Speaker 2: Before you move on,
it was a little bit back
when you're talking about
how this might not actually
be implemented quite yet.
So the question is from the Nicholas
asked is there an option for
us to control this via
JavaScript in the meantime
in other words can we set some
variables and allow users to
manipulate those through controls?
>> Rachel Nabors: Can we let
people manipulate the global
time line of animations today?
Well, yeah kind of.
That would require you to use
the web animations API polyfill.
And you'd have to do things
where you basically run through
all of the animations on the page,
and then adjust their playback rates.
It's not quite feasible for today.
But this is something that
hopefully within the next year or
two will be possible and
a little bit more convenient and
won't require a poly fill on quite so
many browsers.
We'll talk a little bit more about
the Web animations API at the end.
That was a very good question and
I'm happy to revisit it later too.
>> Rachel Nabors: The other
alternative would be that you could
write an alternative style sheet with
different durations and
let people set their duration preferences.
If you are working on a government site or
a site with profiles and
accessibility options.
Which, if you do work on a site, and
you have, you probably should have some
accessibility options for a site with
a huge amount of different users of
different capabilities and age ranges,
you probably should have some like would
you like to use a font that is good for
people with dyslexia options somewhere.
Along with font sizes etc for
people who don't want to dig
around the guts of their browsers,
we're not all built for that.
That would be a good place to
put that option like would you
like animations to run a little
bit slower or possibly not at all.
That would be a good place to add
an alternative stylesheet option.
That's how I would do it without using
JavaScript, if push came to shove and
that would work pretty much
across the board today.
All right, so there is something
to keep in mind, though.
That's not my mouse.
If an animation is too fast to
be interpreted it's cognitive
load benefits can be lost.
Here's my site with 100 millisecond
duration on that slide.
If you blink you'll miss it.
It's happening so fast that very few
people are going to benefit from this.
It may as well just be a jump coming in
and off the page without an animation.
Now here, the animation is happening so
fast it's barely noticeable.
Do we really need it?
Probably not,
we could probably save some time,
save a threat on the on the CPU or
the GPU in this case.
I'm using transforms and
not bother to animate that.
So If you're going to animate things
too quickly for them to help people,
to help ease cognitive load, help them
see where things are coming from and
where they're going, it's probably
better to just not animate them at all.